---
layout: post
title:  "Static site generators"
date:   2018-11-18 00:26:26 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

## What are static site generators?
A `static site generator` compiles dynamic data and template to static files (HTML + CSS). This site uses Jekyll, one of the most popular static site generators available today. It is intgrated with github which makes deployment a breeze.


## Why is this useful?
There are several reasons that makes this a great approach;

- **Simplicity** - since all files generated by static site generators are, well, static, the requirements of the web server is minimal. This also means that we can handle a lot of traffic on a single server, and easily scale as needed. Once you know your way around the static site generator of your choice, there is also a lot less overhead compared to using a CMS, where you often have to use a GUI to edit your site's content.

- **Maintainability** - compared to writing and maintaining HTML files by hand, static site generators offers a lot of flexibility and makes life easier and more DRY (*Don't Repeat Yourself*).

**Performance** - since all files being served are static, the server never has to dynamically render anything. This makes for great performance.

- **Security** - since there are no attack vectors for static files, we do not have to worry about introducing security vulnerabilities through flawed application design.


### WHat types of project should SSG's be used for?
I would say most! For all websites where data is known beforehand, and does not need to be updated in real-time, using SSG:s both super-charges server performance (as there is no overhead to render a dynamic page on each request), and makes life easier for developers. For example, the ability to use Markdown for writing content makes it a lot easier to write the actual content, when there is less HTML "in the way".
